Thank You For Your Purchase!

Please remember that these products include either
Private Label Rights and/or Master Resale Rights,
and/or Giveaway Rights!

You must check each individual product to determine
what, if any, restrictions have been placed on them
by the developer.

Please note that we obtained products directly from
the source or a party that has the authority to sell
the product. As such, we are passing along the
rights as they have been presented to us. If you are
ever challenged as to your right to promote a
particular product please notify us at once. We keep
excellent records but have seen instances in which a
seller will claim that an item does not come with a
particular right. Only on one occasion of dozens was
the claim found to be warranted. And in that
instance it was the source that we had purchased
from that turned out to have misrepresented the
rights associated with the product.

If this purchase involved one of our packages, such
as "The Webmaster's Blog Package", please remember
that you can sell the individual Master Resale
Rights product using the accompaning sales page.
You cannot copy our sales page which has been
altered in most instances, nor can you copy someone
else's sales page. You are free to alter the
accompaning sales page as you like. (1) And it is
advisable to make such alterations. (2)

You cannot use our graphics associated with the
package without written permission per our online
policy.

(1) If you are new to selling digital items online
be aware that a few developers state that you cannot
alter the sales page except the price, payment links,
etc. We don't honor this restriction and it is not
enforceable unless stated prior to the purchase. So
do not be intimidated. 

(2) If you do not alter the sales page it will be
similar to dozens, if not hundreds of others on the
Internet. The search engines will not deliver good
page rankings in such instances. Make some changes
and choose your own keywords and you will get much
better page rankings.

Again, thank you for your purchase and be sure to
check the following pages on a regular basis.

Subscriber Specials at
www.2nd-income-solutions.com/Subscriber_Specials.htm
Here you will find specials that are only available
to subscribers. They are not posted elsewhere!

2nd Income Solutions Affiliate Program at
www.2nd-income-solutions.com/Affiliates.htm
You will find that digital products sell very well
but it takes a lot of time to set-up sales pages,
payment links, etc. An easier way is to use the
products you purchase for your own personal benefit
and join our Affiliate Program and make 50% on each
sale by simply promoting the product package. Small
banners will be made available in the near future
to assist in promoting.