Email Four:


Subject: Fat Free - Is There Any Such Thing?


Hi {firstname_fix},


If it sounds too good to be true it more than often probably is and this also applies to fat free and sugar free foods.


As the saying goes there is no such thing as a free lunch and although the though of being able to eat as much as you want of your favorites foods and there be no consequence is appealing there is always some kind of trade off.  Although you may not be eating the usual fat in a serving of your favorite potato chips, man made alternatives are not without their share of side effects.


In the mid 90's with the rise of obesity being greater than at any other point in time it was decided that a harmless chemical named Olestra which was discovered by mistake 40 years prior by Proctor and Gamble would be put into foods as a substitute for the fatty taste.  Olestra was supposed to lower cholestrerol by up to 15% however the FDA has not found significant scientific proof to verify this claim.  It was then to be used as a fat free alternative to oil and was used in place of vegetable oils for certain brands of potato chips.  


Why were they so popular?  The thought of not having to sacrifice the foods you love and not gain weight was appealing.  The reason why snacks high in fat are always popular comes purely down to taste because fat molecules carry flavor.  Olestra was able to maintain the flavor that consumers loved without the high calories that came with the usual potato chip.  


Sounds great doesn't it?  However Olestra is not without its share of side effects if consumed in quantity.  The body is unable to digest and breakdown the Olestra which passes through the body untouched.  If consumed in larger quantities which is easy to do if you love potato chips and as most people do when they think its fat free, the side effects is anal leakage.  Not a nice thing to experience if you're out on the town with your friends.


Fat free foods have high appeal because people like to think that they can eat as much of their favorite foods as possible without consequence, unfortunately there's no such thing.  With the rise of fat free alternatives consumers are encouraged to eat more from the foods at the top of the pyramid.  There is the illusion you can eat whatever you want.  


Olestra has only been added to foods for the past 24 years.  The FDA still don't know what the longterm effects might be.  If the Olestra molecule passes through the body without being absorbed it might impact on how your other food is being digested, it is a concern that consumers may not receiving all of their nutrients from their regular food as Olestra may block proper absorption. 


The bottom line here is that there is no quick fix.  Avoid additives that came of out of a laboratory and you will be on your way to a leaner, healthier body.  This is applies to artificial sweeteners too such as Sorbitol which is contained in chewing gum, pancake syrups, jellies, jams, sugars etc. of which side effects when consuming in excess of 20 grams per day can cause severe diarrhea and aggravate Irritable Bowel Syndrome.


Individuals have been hospitlized from consuming 30 grams of Sorbitol based products per day on a regualar basis.  Your cells produce Sorbitol naturally but an excess can lead to cell damage.   
 


Bottom line, if you are going to consume foods with artifical additives, moderation is always the key however there is no substitute for the best foods which are straight out of natures garden, foods that can readily be absorbed that are nutrient rich and are beneficial to your health and wellbeing.


Bring your body back into its natural balance and to look and feel great at the same time, try this...  



(You website link goes here)


To your new life

(Your name)

(Your Contact email address)

