Email Three:


Subject:  Why Your Body Fights To Keep You Fat


Hi {firstname_fix},


Don't get discouraged.  Against its better judgment your body is actually trying to protect you.  Think of it as an evolutionary mechanism formed back when times were a lot tougher than they are now.


Located within your brain is your hypothalamus.  This is your weight regulating mechanism, it keeps your weight at a certain level known as your setpoint.  Think of your setpoint as a your bodys natural weight thermostat.  Whatever weight you currently are at your setpoint maintains.


If you weigh 200 pounds then that is what your setpoint is programed to.


You start on a calorie restrictive diet, you eat much less and infrequently and you lose the weight.


At first the weight is dropping off like crazy, the needle on the weigh scale has shifted 4 pounds and it has only been your first week.  You are feeling tired and lethargic but the results are keeping you motivated.


Second week and this time you lose only one pound.  You are feeling a little 
disappointed despite sticking to your diet faithfully.


Third week and this time the needle on the weigh scale doesn't even budge.  Now you're feeling that the diet isn't working, coupled with that you are also feeling tired, hungry, lethargic, irritable and frustrated.


Suddenly your cravings come flooding back so powerful it will take a lot more than willpower to control them.


You want all of the carbohydrate rich, high calorie foods you were deprived of, you eat until you gain back all the weight but then suddenly something you didn't expect, you gain back an extra 5 pounds on top of that.


Why?



It goes back to evolution.  Because you starved yourself with excessive dieting and calorie restriction your body intervened for your own good.  Your setpoint was set to 200 pounds, you lost 6 pounds and your body wanted to do whatever it took for you to gain it all back.  So it increased your appetite.  But your body and the incredible machine of survival that it is didn't just stop there. 


Because your body felt threatened and didn't want to jeopardize its weight it made you eat more so that you not only gained back all of the weight, plus extra.  Because your body thought its own survival was threatened and that it was starving it wanted you gain back even more incase of another famine related crisis, also known as your calorie restrictive crash diet.  Don't get mad at your body it's only doing what it was designed to do.  To protect you at all costs.


Don't be disheartened.  There is a way to eat so that it is more in line with your body than against it.


Just don't diet.  Eat reasonably and include all food groups as part of your daily diet.  You don't severly restrict your calories and you won't send up red flags to your body that its starving.     


You can get rid of the fat that has been clinging to you for good this time and never have to go on another diet again for the rest of your life.  Get the answers you're looking for here...



(Your website link goes here)


To your new life


(Your name)


(Your Contact email address)

