Email One:


Subject:  Abdominal Fat Is No Joke


Hi {firstname_fix},


I am glad you could join my newsletter.  Over the coming weeks I am going to provide you with information that is motivational, educational and lifechanging. 


You are going to learn how your body works, why it stores the fat that it does and how to burn it properly so that the lost pounds never return.  I hope you enjoy reading this as much as I have enjoyed writing it for you.


Whether you're wanting to lose weight because it's a new year's resolution you've made or you are just wanting to drop the pounds in general you need to understand that losing weight goes so far beyond physical measure.


The excess weight you're carrying around on your frame, in particluar your abdominal region is life threatening.  Apart from the usual doughy, dimply Mozarella appearance of this type of fat, it is not joking matter.


This type of fat can be directly related to Type II diabetes, heart disease and stroke risk.  These are illnesses that are so commong by today's standards they are literally reaching epidemic proportions compared to just 50 years ago.  We are eating ourselves to an early grave, in fact it is said that some children in this generation will not outlive their parents simply because of diet and lifestyle.  Frightening.


So why out of all the fat you store on your body such as your arms, buttocks, legs, hips, thighs and face is abdominal any different?, fat is fat right?  Not quite, you see not all fat is created equally.


Doughy stomachs and beer bellies are indicators of heart disease, so if you have an excess of this type of fat you have to lose it.  


Those who lost just 30 pounds greatly reduced their risk of pre-diabetes, the precursor to flown blown Type II diabetes.  Pre-diabetes happens when there is an excess of fat on the body and insulin effectiveness is reduced (a condition known as insulin resistance).  Excess sugar remains in the blood elevating sugar levels and affecting the normal function of the body.  When you have too much sugar in the blood, the blood as a result begins to thicken or become viscous.  When that happens the risk of blood clots greatly increases resulting in heart attack and stroke.


Abdominal fat is the most active fat on the body compared with the hips and buttocks and does not behave the same way.  This is because abdominal fat is "visceral" fat.  This is the type of fat that is interlaced throughout your vital organs such as your liver, intenstines, pancrease, gallbladder.


Remember how I mentioned that it was the most active fat on the body?  It is responsible for releasing inflammotary molecules into your body and can interfere with your bodys natural chemical reactions.  


It is important that you lose weight for this reason.  Put your health first and you will get the attractive, slim, strong body in the process.  A nice bonus.  


How Do You Get Rid Of Abdominal Fat?  


If you were like me and most people out there you would have tried every diet under the sun.  They are all based upon outrageous claims, you try to stick it out because you want to avoid the pain of failing again so you hold on for as long as you can.  Yet again, another diet only ends up in failure, frustration and feeling jaded.


Why?  Well, simply put diets don't work.  Diet implies a temporary solution to a problem that has been years in the making but every diet must come to an end.  This is when you find yourself struggling with real world eating and the weight plus more piles back on.  Your diet may be so calorie restrictive that your body forces you to eat to gain back the pounds making you fatter than before, this is known as Yo Yo dieting.


Diets Make You Fat


To lose the weight you need to stay away from these gimmicks that promise a 5 pound or more weight loss per week.

Unless you're a Biggest Loser contestant you shouldn't be aiming for this.  A nice 1 to 2 pound per week weight loss is perfect.  Remember that slow wins the race, those little losses end up being huge ones over time, so resist the temptation to lose the 10 pounds per week.  You didn't gain 100 pounds over night so it reasons to stand that it won't come off overnight either.  But I promise it will come off at a faster rate than it went on.  


You have to find what is going to work for you this time and that is to work in harmony with your body, not torture it with starvation or weird food combinations.   


To do this you need to know what foods you should be eating and the types of exercises that will help melt the fat from your body and more importantly your abdomen.


I want to you help lose the weight once and for all.  This can be the last program you do because if you try this
you won't need anything else.


Rid yourself of that life threatening abdominal fat and get the body you've always wanted here...


(Your website link goes here)


To your new life


(Your name)


(Your Contact email address)

