Email Two:


Subject:  Need To Gain Some Weight? - Why Not Try A Fad Diet?


Hi {firstname_fix},


I know that title seems a little provocative but it's absolutely true!


Unless you're Victoria Beckham you simply can't sustain a fad diet for the long term.


What do I mean by "fad diet"?


They are easy to spot as they tend to fall into 1 or more categories in a list of 10 with one of them being that in order to lose weight you need to eliminate one or more food groups from your diet.


Diets like these are of the low carbohydrate variety.  It relies on the priniciples of fat burning physiology.  Eliminating carbohydrates such as cereals and grains and certain fruits and vegetables burns fat fast.  


How your body functions under normal conditions is that it uses carbohydrates from your daily diet to burn as energy.  This helps sustain you and give you all the energy you need for the purpose of living.  Before your body can burn fat it first burns the carbohydrates as sugar because carbohydrates in your system are converted to both complex and simple sugars.  After the available carbohydrates have been burned then the body turns to your fat stores.  Diets low in carbohydrates reduce the need to burn carbs off as sugars and instead goes straight to the process of burning fat.  Sounds great and physiology of how the body works has proven this is the case however there are drawbacks.


Most people simply can't stick to diets like this.  It is too restrictive.  Dieters who cut out carbohydrates experience irritability, constipation, bad breath, boredom from lack of variety, nutrient deficiency, get tired of eating so much protein.  
Diets high in animals fats are also linked with certain types of cancers.  Scientists note that low carb diets work temporarily but they still don't know what longterm effects a diet like this will have on health.


The brain needs a certain amount of carbohydrates daily for proper function.  Carbohyrdates such as whole grains and cereals are responsible for the proper cleaning of the intestines and bowels not to mention the nutrients and energy that we gain from fruits and vegetable which also add bulk to our food.  


The best kind of diet is no diet at all.  You need all food groups in their correct proportions for overall health and wellbeing.

 
Low carbohydrate diets may work for the short term, but being too restrictive our body's old habits come flooding back and we binge and gain back all the weight plus lots more.  This is why gimmicky diets don't work and only end up making us fatter.


If we can lose the weight sensibly without the need for dieting and without deprivation and extreme calorie restriction, not only will the weight come off but come off for good.


Lose the weight for life without dieting here...


(Your website link goes here)


To your new life

(Your name)

(Your Contact email address)

