Email Six:


Subject: How To Keep The Weight Off For Life 


Hi {firstname_fix},


The best way to keep the weight off for life is to eat the way you would for life.


That means avoiding dieting because to lose weight and to maintain that loss for the long term you need to think
permanent, lifestyle change.


Remember what I mentioned in one of our ealier emails?  Diets simply don't work, period.  Sure they may give 
temporary results but they more often are undone within the first 30 days of coming off the diet.  


Most diets lose more water and precious muscle tissue than fat which is why the weight seems to be sucked right back onto your body the moment you come off your diet and go back to your normal eating patterns.


To lose weight for good this time, don't diet.  


Eat smaller meals so that you don't tax your metabolism.  Ever wonder why you get tired after eating a large meal?  Your energy is diverted to digestion which leaves you feeling tired and lethargic.  To avoid the mid afternoon energy slumps, eat 5 to 6 smaller, balanced meals per day and eat from all food groups.


Don't avoid breakfast, there is truth to this.  People who skip breakfast are more likely to overeat later on during their day. Eating a healthy breakfast maintains your energy and blood sugar levels which prevents you from experiencing the spikes and lows that comes with eating a larger, calorie rich meal to make up for the lack of breakfast.  This is why you have a tendency to overeat when skipping breakfast because the body increases your appetite making you even more hungry to make up for this lack of food in the morning.


Eating anything from a palm full of protein such as chicken, fish or even nuts can sustain you for hours and protein is a great building block for building even more fat burning lean muscle tissue.


Eating right is for life and will ultimately bring your body and the way that it functions back into balance that eating high fat, empty calories foods has robbed you of over the years, but it can be undone.  You can reverse the toll that bad eating has taken on your body, it's never too late.  Our bodies are incredible creations that can only take so much abuse before they show the effects such as diabetes when our sugar has been out of control for too long, heart disease when we've consumed diets high in fat and high blood pressure when our heart has to work harder because our arteries have become clogged.  The effects can be improved or reversed if we change how we eat and how we move, now.  This is one goal that shouldn't be procrastinated because not only is it about looks but more importantly your health and your life.


Learn how you can eat for maximum weight loss while improving your health here...


(Your website link goes here)


To your new life

(Your name)

(Your Contact email address)