Email Five:


Subject:  Can You Lose Weight Without Exercise?


Hi {firstname_fix},


Well yes and no.

Yes you will lose weight but more likely it will be water and precious lean muscle tissue than fat.  Even though you will be shrinking in size it will be because of the muscle loss while you still retain the fat you've been so desperately trying to rid yourself of. Without exercise you won't get the attractive, toned body shape you've always wanted.


Because your body has done such a marvellous job of storing excess energy in the form of fat the only way to reverse the process is to burn it.  This is the only way to get rid of the love handles.


When you exercise your lean muscle tissue grabs surrounding fat stores and burns them as energy.
 The more fat it burns the more your attractive muscles are brought to the surface.  The more lean muscle tissue you have the more fat you burn. 


I know that most people conjure thoughts of sweating and torturing themselves like crazy to lose weight which just isn't true.  You can do something as simple as walking to drop pounds, anything that gets your heart rate rising and exercises your large muscle groups as well as your heart will shed pounds.  Exercising at least 3 times or more per week will drop the weight even faster.

So why exercise for 30 minutes?  Up until the 15 minute minute mark you are only burning sugar therefore you need to break past this 15 minute barrier to start burning fat stores which is why at least 30 minutes is recommended.  
  

Not only is exercise important for weight loss as it is twice as effective as dieting alone but it also has so many benefits.

It releases endorphins which is the bodys natural feel good hormone which is great for stress relief.

Exercise works the heart muscle which keeps it fit and strong.

Exercise helps you get more restful sleep.

It keeps your arteries supple and flexible so that blood can flow through easily.

Exercise reduces the risk of heart disease, Type II diabetes and stroke which can prolong your life.


So as you can see, weight loss without exercise is only half as effective than dieting alone. 
 

Get the perfect balance between eating and exercise and lose the weight for good this time here.

(Your website link goes here)


To your new life

(Your name)

(Your Contact email address)

