Did you get the body you wanted in 2008

Getting the right body is almost an obsession for most people. This is because of the newfound knowledge of the dangers that are associated with being obese. Obesity is a condition where the body accumulates so much fat that it becomes risky to the overall health of the body. Obesity kills over 400,000 people in the United States alone not to mention the many billions of dollars that are lost due to slow productivity especially for workers who have to incur medical costs related to being overweight.

But many people are coming to the realization that in order to enjoy a quality life and prolong their life, they must watch their weight. Obesity is measured in what is called BMI or body mass index. Body mass index is a measure of one’s weight in relation to their height. A BMI of 25 or more is considered overweight and one is advised to take measures to cut down.

One of the reasons people become obese is because of indulging in high calorie foods while at the same time living a life that has little or no exercise. Many people are too busy to cook or even do grocery shopping. This is because of social pressures that come from living in today’s industrialized societies. Because many people have no time to eat at home, they resort to fast foods which have a lot of calories. Even though many fast food restaurants have been mandated by the government to use less fat when preparing their meals, they nevertheless continue to churn out very high calorie meals.

One of the best ways to get the body that you want is to learn what different diets you can get into and which ones work. This may involve doing research. There are many excellent sites out there that can provide excellent information regarding nutrition. One such site is the USFDA www.mypyramid.gov which has a wealth of information on nutrition.  One way to ensure that you are eating right is either to be very vigilant when doing grocery shopping. Sometimes you might need to get an accountability partner just to keep you from relapsing into eating non-healthy foods. You can also join a weight loss club and there are many of these in practically every city in the US. This can encourage one to stay on course when it comes to exercising and motivation to eat right.

Another way to get the body that you want in the coming year is to exercise. You do not need to enroll in a gym to get into some exercise regimen. You can simply start by walking around the neighborhood where you live or running. You might need to buy some running shoes and then develop an exercise discipline.

Sometimes developing the right body is a matter of self-esteem. It is a matter of getting into the right mindset and if you can feel deep within yourself that you deserve a great body and that you have what  it takes to get there, you will get there.








