Fat Busting Exercises to help you lose weight in 2009
Obesity is considered one of the leading causes of death in many countries especially the United States. Obesity is defined as a condition where the body accumulates enough fat to be considered a health risk. Almost half a million people lose their lives in the United States due to obesity-related complications.  Obesity is measured using what is known as the Body Mass Index which is a measure of one’s weight in relation to their age and height. A BMI of 25 or more is considered overweight.

Many people become overweight because of a number of factors. One of them indulgence in high fat foods especially fast foods and also cooking with high calorie fats. Many people nowadays fry their foods and also frequent fast foods on a regular basis. Fast food restaurants are the major culprits when it comes to high calorie diets. Then we live in a society that puts too much pressure on its citizens and people are so pressed for time they do not have to cook and eat healthy diets or even exercise.

It is also true that some people are overweight because of a genetic issue with their bodies that causes it to accumulate more fat than it needs. If these same people indulge in the lifestyles we have mentioned above, they have a very high chance to becoming obese.

But how can one fight fat and develop a lean body in the year 2009? The first step is exercise. Excess  body fat is attained when the body accumulates more fat than it burns. So exercise helps a great deal. One of the exercises is walking. People must develop the habit of walking especially if they need to go short distances. Running is also one way of cutting down on excess fat.  One need not join a  gym to start simple excises even at home. Discipline is required in order to get this done. When we talk of discipline, we mean that one has to develop a program or routine and stick with it. This is where we lose many people because most people do not have enough time to devote to weight loss exercises.

In order to develop discipline, one may need an accountability partner. This may involve joining a weight loss club where there are others who are trying to achieve the same goal. If you have money to spare, then hiring personal trainers is one of the best investments you can ever make. This is because they trainer, who is usually someone who is well versed with all the procedures and disciplines of losing weight, will keep you on your toes and ensure that you achieve your goal.

Another great exercise that you can engage in that helps in defeating fat accumulation is swimming. If you have a free pool at your neighborhood, use it. Swimming is one of those rare exercises that is so essential because it exercises all the muscles of the body at the same time.



