How to Succeed In Your New Yearĺs Weight Loss Resolutions
Weight loss is one of the most popular topics for so many people and this has only increased in recent times. This is because of the awareness that has stemmed from the medical research and the media concerning the dangers of being obese. Obesity is a medical term that is used to refer to a condition where the body accumulates so much fat that it becomes a health risk. Obesity is essentially measured in what is called Body Mass Index or BMI. BMI was invented as a way to measure oneĺs weight in relation to their heaight and has since been utilized as the standard for measuring whether one is obese or not. BMI does not actually measure the amount of body fat in someone but is nevertheless accepted as the ideal and most accurate way to measure obesity.

In the United States, ober 40% of the general population has a BMI that indicates obesity. This has translated into health issues formany people and there are over 400,000 deaths each year in the United States due to obesity. The economy also loses billlions of dollars each year due to lost productivity which stems from medical visits that can be directly attributed to being overweight. 

There are various reasons why one can become obese. In the United States, there is the culture of fast food which is compounded by a busy lifestyle where people have no time to cook and no time to exercise. This is because of a society that keeps people so busy that they do not have the time to go grocery shopping and therefore prefer to eat out instead. It is no longer uncommon to see whole families going for breakfats, lunch and dinner at fast food restaurants simply becaiuse they do not have the time to cook.

Then there are off course people who have genetic malfunctions which cause their bodies to accumulate more fat than normal and if these same people live the lifestyle we have outlines above, obesity is the only logical destiny for them.

But many have realized that this poses great health risks and can even shorten their lives. That is why losing weight is on many of their New Yearĺs resolution. Unfortunately it is easier said than done and for many families, they face another year struggling with weight problems. But there is a way to ensure that one keeps their reolutions regarding weight loss.

The first way to do this is to enlist the help of someone who will keep you accountable. This can be a family member, a spouse, a friend or even a work colleague. One of the reasons why accountability is important is to prevent one from relapsing into habits that facilitate obesity.

Another way to make sure you attain your resolutions to lose weight is to enlist the services of a personal trainer. These donot have to be expensive and if cost is a concern to you, you can minimize the hours which you hire them. Personal trainers are very effective in helping you to realize your goals.
