New Years resolutions for 2009-weight loss

Obesity is one of the highest causes of death in the United States with over 400,000 people dying each year because of it. There are also millions more that are affected by being overweight to the extent that their lives are also in danger. In fact, obesity means a condition where the body fat accumulates to such an extent as to become a health hazard. Medicare for obesity-related costs is also escalating. Thanks to media reports and the fact that people are now becoming more aware of the health risks of being obese, many people who are overweight are now taking steps to become leaner and this is high on the agenda of many when it comes to their New Year’s resolution. But before examine these resolutions; let us see what causes obesity.

One of the main reasons for becoming obese is lack of diligence and vigilance when it comes to diet. Today’s foods, especially fast foods are deep fried and even though many fast food restaurants have adapted cooking fats that have less trans fats, these foods still contain a high dosage of fat and calories and have been a major culprit in the rise in people’s cholesterol levels.

Fast food restaurants are almost everywhere nowadays and they cater to a society that is so pressed for time that they do not have enough time to prepare their own meals. A typical fast food meal has over 1000 calories and some even contain the entire daily calorie intake requirement in one meal!

Living a life of fast food restaurants and lack of exercise (all because they do not have enough time) is the major cause of obesity. Then there are people whose genetic makeup does not allow for enough fat to be burnt. Take this and combine it with the fact that many people prefer to drive even for ridiculously short distances and you have a obesity.
But many have become determined to rid themselves of excess weight in 2009 and have made that their New Year’s resolution. There are few steps one can take to ensure that this resolution becomes a reality.

One way is to determine to exercise. One need not even join a gym. They can simply start at home with simple push ups. Swimming also helps immensely if one has a pool/ Walking and running around their compound or neighborhood helps a whole lot. If you have some extra money to spare you can hire a personal trainer who will personally oversee your weight loss.

Another strategy is to observe one’s diet and to determine to eat smart. This means watching the calories that are in everything you buy at the store. The food pyramid website maintained by the USFDA is an excellent place to start if you want to know what diets contain what nutrients.

Being wise regarding what one eats requires discipline and this is obtained by habit. It may not be easy at first but it eventually is if one sticks to the diet.



